docs/drafts/general_integer_parsing.md, before:

# Generalized integer parsing

Currently, integers are scanned then the substring is parsed. This is ideal for
parsers which segment into words first, but leads to a lot of logic duplication
for scanning parsers. Since a scanner can be applied to a segment, scanning is
the more general approach. The following details generalized integer parsing
while scanning.

## Algorithm

TODO: Change it to forbidding digit separators when juxtaposition is enabled and
using the first "_" to resolve ambiguity. This also enables base suffixes with
juxtaposition (e.g., `111b_slide`).

TODO: Handle "0b"/"0B" as digits for "h"/"H" suffix.

**Leading whitespace**

- If strip whitespace: Error unless `space_locations` includes `Leading`.

**Open parens**

- Initialize open count to 0.
- If `parens` in config:
  - While bump '(':
    - Increment open count.
    - If strip whitespace: Error unless `space_locations` includes `BetweenParens`.

**Signs**

- Initialize negative to false.
- Initialize sign to `None` in `enum { None, Neg, Pos, Multiple }`
- Initialize sign count to 0.
- Loop:
  - If bump '-':
    - Set negative to not negative.
    - Set sign to: Match sign: Case `None`: `Neg`; Otherwise: `Multiple`.
    - Error unless `signs` includes `Neg`.
  - Else if bump '+':
    - Set sign to: Match sign: Case `None`: `Pos`; Otherwise: `Multiple`.
    - Error unless `signs` includes `Pos`.
  - Else: Break.
  - Increment sign count.
  - If strip whitespace: Error unless `space_locations` includes `AfterSign`.
- If sign count > 1: Error unless `signs` includes `Multiple`.

**Base prefix**

- Initialize base style to `None`.
- Initialize marked base to `None`.
- If bump "0b" or "0B": Set base style to "0b" or "0B" prefix. Set marked base to 2.
- Else if bump "0o" or "OO": Set base style to "0o" or "OO" prefix. Set marked base to 8.
- Else if bump "0x" or "0X": Set base style to "0x" or "0X" prefix. Set marked base to 16.

**Digits**

- Initialize digits array to empty.
- Initialize inferred base to 0.
- Initialize last was digit sep to false.
- Initialize digit sep after octal zero to false.
- Initialize first letter pos to `None`.
- While not EOF:
  - Initialize ch to bump
  - Match ch:
    - Case '0':
    - Case '1': Set inferred base to max of itself and 2.
    - Case '2' to '7': Set inferred base to max of itself and 8.
    - Case '8' to '9': Set inferred base to max of itself and 10.
    - Case 'a' to 'f' or 'A' to 'F':
      - If ch is 'b' or 'B'
        and base style is `None` and inferred base <= 2
        and peek is not any of '0' to '9', 'a' to 'z', 'A' to 'Z', '_', or '\'':
        - Set base style to "b" or "B" suffix. Set marked base to 2.
        - Break.
      - Else:
        - Set inferred base to max of itself and 16.
        - If first letter pos is `None`: Set first letter pos to current pos - 1.
    - Case '_' or '\'':
      - If ch is '_': Error unless `digit_sep` includes `Underscore`.
      - If ch is '\'':
        - If `quote_digit_sep` not in config: Backtrack 1. Break.
        - Error unless `digit_sep` includes `SingleQuote`.
      - If digits array is empty:
        - If base style is `None`: Error.
        - Else: Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `AfterBasePrefix`.
      - Else if `leading_zero_octal` in config and digits array is [0]:
        - Set digit sep after octal zero to true.
      - If last was digit sep: Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `MultipleAdjacent`.
      - Continue.
    - Default:
      - Backtrack 1. Break.
  - Push ch to digits array.
- If last was digit sep and digits is not empty:
  - Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `AfterDigits`.

**Base suffix**

- If base style is `None`
  and if peek is 'o', 'O', 'h', or 'H'
  and peek after is not any of '0' to '9', 'a' to 'z', 'A' to 'Z', '_', or '\'':
  - Bump.
  - Set base style to "o", "O", "h", or "H" suffix. Set marked base to 8 or 16.
- If base style is "h" or "H" suffix
  and first element of digits array is in 'a' to 'f' or 'A' to 'F':
  - Error if `suffix_decimal_first`.
- Error unless `base_styles` includes base style.

**Juxtaposed word**

- If `juxtapose_word` in config
  and base style is `None`
  and peek is 'a' to 'z' or 'A' to 'Z':
  - Backtrack to first letter pos. Pop excess from digits array.
  - Adjust inferred base to 2, 8, or 10.

**Leading zero octal**

- If `leading_zero_octal` in config
  and base style is `None`
  and first element of digits array is 0:
  - If digits array is [0]: Set marked base to 10.
  - Else:
    - Pop front of digits array.
    - Set base style to '0' prefix. Set marked base to 8.
    - If digit sep after octal zero: Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `AfterOctalLeadingZero`.

**Suffix and empty prefix conflict**

- If digits array is empty:
  - If base style is "0b" prefix and `base_styles` contains "b" suffix
    or base style is "0B" prefix and `base_styles` contains "B" suffix
    or base style is "0o" prefix and `base_styles` contains "o" suffix
    or base style is "0O" prefix and `base_styles` contains "O" suffix:
    - Set base style to "b", "B", "o", or "O" suffix. Set marked base to 2 or 8.
    - Set digits array to [0].

**Validate base**

- If marked base < inferred base:
  - Error with out of range digit.

**Close parens**

- Initialize close count to 0.
- If `parens` in config:
  - While close count < open count:
    - If strip whitespace: Error unless `space_locations` includes `BetweenParens`.
    - If bump ')': Increment close count.
    - Else: Error with unclosed parens. Break.

**Trailing whitespace**

- If strip whitespace: Error unless `space_locations` includes `Trailing`.

## Common case algorithm

There should also be a simple algorithm, which handles the common case of
`[-+]?[0-9]+`. If it fails, switch to the full algorithm. If at least one digit
was read, jump to digit reading in the full algorithm, reusing the digit buffer
and leading zero count.

## Fields for `IntegerSyntax`

- `signs: EnumSet<SignStyle>` with `enum SignStyle { Neg, Pos, Multiple }`.
- `base_styles: EnumSet<BaseStyle>` as currently.
- `suffix_decimal_first: bool`.
- `digit_seps: EnumSet<DigitSep>` with `enum DigitSep { Underscore, SingleQuote }`.
- `digit_sep_location: EnumSet<DigitSepLocation>` with
  `enum DigitSepLocation { AfterBasePrefix, AfterOctalLeadingZero, AfterDigits, MultipleAdjacent }`.
- `spaces` configures the whitespace characters allowed. Probably an enum set,
  since everything will use a subset of Unicode whitespace plus NUL.
- `space_locations: EnumSet<SpaceLocation>` with
  `enum SpaceLocation { Leading, AfterSign, Trailing, BetweenParens }`.

This algorithm only works if `base_styles` includes `Decimal` (i.e.,
unprefixed).

## Parsing config

Only these three options affect the parsing behavior; the rest above determine
which constructs are errors.

- `leading_zero_octal: bool` determines whether a leading '0' denotes octal.
- `quote_digit_sep: bool` determines whether to parse single quote '\'' digit
  separators.
- `juxtapose_word: bool`, when enabled, prefers the shortest valid
  decimal integer interpretation if there is trailing text. This is for
  supporting integers fused to a mnemonic as in wsf.
- `parens: bool` determines whether to parse parens.

## Extensions

An 'r'/'R' suffix would be compatible with all integer syntaxes. It could denote
a "raw" integer, where the leading zeros are significant in the binary
serialization. Add field `raw_suffix: bool` to `IntegerSyntax`.

Other bases up to 62 would require a prefix and could not be inferred.

## Fused mnemonics

A fused mnemonic begins at the first ASCII letter or the first underscore,
whichever is first. However, only if what would be the mnemonic has a digit
invalid for the base.

Fused mnemonics cannot start with an ASCII digit. A mnemonic that starts with an
ASCII letter can only be used with decimal integers.

Suppose the mnemonic `xchg` can be fused. Then `0xchg` is unclear: it could be
either hex `0xc` fused with `hg` or `0` fused with `xchg`. For simplicity, `0x`
at the start should always be interpreted as a hex prefix. For the latter
behavior, the user should write `0_xchg`, `00xchg`, or possibly `0 xchg`.

Suppose the mnemonic `add` can be fused. It's entirely hex digits, so cannot be
used after a hex integer.

Suppose the mnemonic `div` can be fused. It would be partially read as hex
digits.

## Tests

- "0101b": binary 0b101.
- "0101b123slide": decimal 0101 followed by "b123slide".
- "255add": decimal 255 followed by "add"
- "0xffadd": hex 0xffadd.
- "0xff_add": hex 0xffadd.
- "0xchg": hex 0xc followed by error "hg" (even if fused enabled).
- "0_xchg": decimal 0 followed by "xchg".
- "00xchg": decimal 00 followed by "xchg".

A test system that runs the parser on all possible configurations would be
useful. However, there are around 2^29 combinations of config options, so this
would not be practical. Instead, it could be fuzzed. For each component of the
output and every kind of error, a small routine could be written that would
compute only that, to be used for comparison.

Commit message:

Draft treating integer parens as separate tokens

docs/drafts/general_integer_parsing.md, after:

# Generalized integer parsing

Currently, integers are scanned then the substring is parsed. This is ideal for
parsers which segment into words first, but leads to a lot of logic duplication
for scanning parsers. Since a scanner can be applied to a segment, scanning is
the more general approach. The following details generalized integer parsing
while scanning.

## Algorithm

TODO: Scan until the token boundary first, detect the base, then parse it.

TODO: Change it to forbidding digit separators when juxtaposition is enabled and
using the first "_" to resolve ambiguity. This also enables base suffixes with
juxtaposition (e.g., `111b_slide`).

TODO: Handle "0b"/"0B" as digits for "h"/"H" suffix.

**Signs**

- Initialize negative to false.
- Initialize sign to `None` in `enum { None, Neg, Pos, Multiple }`
- Initialize sign count to 0.
- Loop:
  - If bump '-':
    - Set negative to not negative.
    - Set sign to: Match sign: Case `None`: `Neg`; Otherwise: `Multiple`.
    - Error unless `signs` includes `Neg`.
  - Else if bump '+':
    - Set sign to: Match sign: Case `None`: `Pos`; Otherwise: `Multiple`.
    - Error unless `signs` includes `Pos`.
  - Else: Break.
  - Increment sign count.
  - If strip whitespace: Error unless `space_locations` includes `AfterSign`.
- If sign count > 1: Error unless `signs` includes `Multiple`.

**Base prefix**

- Initialize base style to `None`.
- Initialize marked base to `None`.
- If bump "0b" or "0B": Set base style to "0b" or "0B" prefix. Set marked base to 2.
- Else if bump "0o" or "OO": Set base style to "0o" or "OO" prefix. Set marked base to 8.
- Else if bump "0x" or "0X": Set base style to "0x" or "0X" prefix. Set marked base to 16.

**Digits**

- Initialize digits array to empty.
- Initialize inferred base to 0.
- Initialize last was digit sep to false.
- Initialize digit sep after octal zero to false.
- Initialize first letter pos to `None`.
- While not EOF:
  - Initialize ch to bump
  - Match ch:
    - Case '0':
    - Case '1': Set inferred base to max of itself and 2.
    - Case '2' to '7': Set inferred base to max of itself and 8.
    - Case '8' to '9': Set inferred base to max of itself and 10.
    - Case 'a' to 'f' or 'A' to 'F':
      - If ch is 'b' or 'B'
        and base style is `None` and inferred base <= 2
        and peek is not any of '0' to '9', 'a' to 'z', 'A' to 'Z', '_', or '\'':
        - Set base style to "b" or "B" suffix. Set marked base to 2.
        - Break.
      - Else:
        - Set inferred base to max of itself and 16.
        - If first letter pos is `None`: Set first letter pos to current pos - 1.
    - Case '_' or '\'':
      - If ch is '_': Error unless `digit_sep` includes `Underscore`.
      - If ch is '\'':
        - If `quote_digit_sep` not in config: Backtrack 1. Break.
        - Error unless `digit_sep` includes `SingleQuote`.
      - If digits array is empty:
        - If base style is `None`: Error.
        - Else: Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `AfterBasePrefix`.
      - Else if `leading_zero_octal` in config and digits array is [0]:
        - Set digit sep after octal zero to true.
      - If last was digit sep: Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `MultipleAdjacent`.
      - Continue.
    - Default:
      - Backtrack 1. Break.
  - Push ch to digits array.
- If last was digit sep and digits is not empty:
  - Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `AfterDigits`.

**Base suffix**

- If base style is `None`
  and if peek is 'o', 'O', 'h', or 'H'
  and peek after is not any of '0' to '9', 'a' to 'z', 'A' to 'Z', '_', or '\'':
  - Bump.
  - Set base style to "o", "O", "h", or "H" suffix. Set marked base to 8 or 16.
- If base style is "h" or "H" suffix
  and first element of digits array is in 'a' to 'f' or 'A' to 'F':
  - Error if `suffix_decimal_first`.
- Error unless `base_styles` includes base style.

**Juxtaposed word**

- If `juxtapose_word` in config
  and base style is `None`
  and peek is 'a' to 'z' or 'A' to 'Z':
  - Backtrack to first letter pos. Pop excess from digits array.
  - Adjust inferred base to 2, 8, or 10.

**Leading zero octal**

- If `leading_zero_octal` in config
  and base style is `None`
  and first element of digits array is 0:
  - If digits array is [0]: Set marked base to 10.
  - Else:
    - Pop front of digits array.
    - Set base style to '0' prefix. Set marked base to 8.
    - If digit sep after octal zero: Error unless `digit_sep_location` includes `AfterOctalLeadingZero`.

**Suffix and empty prefix conflict**

- If digits array is empty:
  - If base style is "0b" prefix and `base_styles` contains "b" suffix
    or base style is "0B" prefix and `base_styles` contains "B" suffix
    or base style is "0o" prefix and `base_styles` contains "o" suffix
    or base style is "0O" prefix and `base_styles` contains "O" suffix:
    - Set base style to "b", "B", "o", or "O" suffix. Set marked base to 2 or 8.
    - Set digits array to [0].

**Validate base**

- If marked base < inferred base:
  - Error with out of range digit.

## Common case algorithm

There should also be a simple algorithm, which handles the common case of
`[-+]?[0-9]+`. If it fails, switch to the full algorithm. If at least one digit
was read, jump to digit reading in the full algorithm, reusing the digit buffer
and leading zero count.

## Fields for `IntegerSyntax`

- `signs: EnumSet<SignStyle>` with `enum SignStyle { Neg, Pos, Multiple }`.
- `base_styles: EnumSet<BaseStyle>` as currently.
- `suffix_decimal_first: bool`.
- `digit_seps: EnumSet<DigitSep>` with `enum DigitSep { Underscore, SingleQuote }`.
- `digit_sep_location: EnumSet<DigitSepLocation>` with
  `enum DigitSepLocation { AfterBasePrefix, AfterOctalLeadingZero, AfterDigits, MultipleAdjacent }`.
- `spaces` configures the whitespace characters allowed. Probably an enum set,
  since everything will use a subset of Unicode whitespace plus NUL.
- `space_locations: EnumSet<SpaceLocation>` with
  `enum SpaceLocation { AfterSign }`.

This algorithm only works if `base_styles` includes `Decimal` (i.e.,
unprefixed).

## Parsing config

Only these three options affect the parsing behavior; the rest above determine
which constructs are errors.

- `leading_zero_octal: bool` determines whether a leading '0' denotes octal.
- `quote_digit_sep: bool` determines whether to parse single quote '\'' digit
  separators.
- `juxtapose_word: bool`, when enabled, prefers the shortest valid
  decimal integer interpretation if there is trailing text. This is for
  supporting integers fused to a mnemonic as in wsf.
- `parens: bool` determines whether to parse parens.

## Extensions

An 'r'/'R' suffix would be compatible with all integer syntaxes. It could denote
a "raw" integer, where the leading zeros are significant in the binary
serialization. Add field `raw_suffix: bool` to `IntegerSyntax`.

Other bases up to 62 would require a prefix and could not be inferred.

## Fused mnemonics

A fused mnemonic begins at the first ASCII letter or the first underscore,
whichever is first. However, only if what would be the mnemonic has a digit
invalid for the base.

Fused mnemonics cannot start with an ASCII digit. A mnemonic that starts with an
ASCII letter can only be used with decimal integers.

Suppose the mnemonic `xchg` can be fused. Then `0xchg` is unclear: it could be
either hex `0xc` fused with `hg` or `0` fused with `xchg`. For simplicity, `0x`
at the start should always be interpreted as a hex prefix. For the latter
behavior, the user should write `0_xchg`, `00xchg`, or possibly `0 xchg`.

Suppose the mnemonic `add` can be fused. It's entirely hex digits, so cannot be
used after a hex integer.

Suppose the mnemonic `div` can be fused. It would be partially read as hex
digits.

## Expressions

Haskell `read :: String -> Integer` allows wrapping parentheses and whitespace.
Although the result is a single value and the parentheses could be included in
the integer token, it is more extensible to make another token kind like
[`syn::ExprParen`](https://docs.rs/syn/latest/syn/struct.ExprParen.html) and to
represent whitespace with separate tokens. (Burghard quotes could be generalized
to variant of the same token.)

Then, the only remaining position whitespace can occur within an integer is
between the sign and digits. If that pattern occurs, it would be represented as
a unary operator instead; likewise for repeated unary signs. This then makes it
more compatible with languages with infix operators.

## Sign token

## Tests

- "0101b": binary 0b101.
- "0101b123slide": decimal 0101 followed by "b123slide".
- "255add": decimal 255 followed by "add"
- "0xffadd": hex 0xffadd.
- "0xff_add": hex 0xffadd.
- "0xchg": hex 0xc followed by error "hg" (even if fused enabled).
- "0_xchg": decimal 0 followed by "xchg".
- "00xchg": decimal 00 followed by "xchg".

A test system that runs the parser on all possible configurations would be
useful. However, there are around 2^29 combinations of config options, so this
would not be practical. Instead, it could be fuzzed. For each component of the
output and every kind of error, a small routine could be written that would
compute only that, to be used for comparison.
