docs/assembly.md, before:

# Whitespace assembly syntax

## Integer literals

Whitespace integer literals are encoded in binary with a sign, or as an empty
sequence without a sign. To allow for representing all patterns of literals,
Whitespace assembly distinguishes leading zeros and allows the empty sequence.

Assembly integer literals can be written in decimal (no prefix), binary (with a
`0b` prefix), octal (`0o`), or hexadecimal (`0x`). In decimal, leading zeros are
forbidden, since 10 is not a power of 2, to avoid ambiguity in the number of
leading zeros to use in binary. In binary, octal, and hexadecimal, a `0` after
the prefix indicates that the rest of the number is encoded in binary, with each
digit padded to a width of 1, 3, or 4 bits, respectively. The empty integer is
represented as the literal `0b`.

| Text   | Whitespace |
| ------ | ---------- |
| 0      | S          |
| -0     | T          |
| 7      | S TTT      |
| -7     | T TTT      |
| 00     | illegal    |
| 007    | illegal    |
| 0b     |            |
| 0b0    | S          |
| 0b00   | S S        |
| 0b000  | S SS       |
| -0b    | illegal    |
| -0b0   | T          |
| -0b00  | T S        |
| -0b000 | T SS       |
| 0b1    | S T        |
| 0b01   | S ST       |
| -0b1   | T T        |
| -0b01  | T ST       |
| 0o     | illegal    |
| 0o0    | S          |
| 0o00   | S SSS      |
| 0o2    | S TS       |
| 0o02   | S STS      |
| 0o002  | S STSSTS   |
| -0o    | illegal    |
| -0o0   | T          |
| -0o00  | T SSS      |
| -0o2   | T TS       |
| -0o02  | T STS      |
| -0o002 | T STSSTS   |
| 0x     | illegal    |
| 0x0    | S          |
| 0x00   | S SSSS     |
| 0x7    | S TTT      |
| 0x07   | S STTT     |
| 0x007  | S SSSSSTTT |
| -0x    | illegal    |
| -0x0   | T          |
| -0x00  | T SSSS     |
| -0x7   | T TTT      |
| -0x07  | T STTT     |
| -0x007 | T SSSSSTTT |

## Tokens

- Word
- Integer
- Character: `' '`
- String: `" "`
- Colon: `:`
- Semicolon: `;`
- Line comment: `#`, `//`, `--`
- Block comment: `/* */`, `{- -}` (nested)
- Line break: LF, CRLF, CR

## Parsing

```rust
enum Token {
    Word,
    Integer,
    Char,
    String,
    Colon,
    Semi,
    Comma,
    Comment,
    LineBreak,
}

enum SemiMode {
    Comment,
    LineBreak,
    Detect,
}

enum OperandMode {
    None,
    /// - `(add|sub|mul|div|mod) (<lhs>? <rhs>)?`
    /// - `store (<addr>? <value>)?`
    /// - `retrieve <value>?`
    Space,
    /// - `(add|sub|mul|div|mod) (<lhs>? "," <rhs>)?`
    /// - `store (<addr>? "," <value>)?`
    /// - `retrieve <value>?`
    Comma,
}

enum LabelOrder {
    /// - `(call|jmp|jz|jn) <label>`
    Post,
    /// - `<label> (call|jmp|jz|jn)`
    Pre,
}
```

```bnf
one_line ::=
    | (inst LineBreak)* LineBreak
inst ::=
    | Mnemonic (Word | Number)*
```

## Style

- Consistent mnemonic names
- Consistent mnemonic casing
- Analogous mnemonic naming (e.g. not `printc` and `outnum` together)
- Consistent comment styles

Commit message:

List heuristics for parsing any wsa dialect

docs/assembly.md, after:

# Parsing any Whitespace assembly dialect

## Integer literals

Whitespace integer literals are encoded in binary with a sign, or as an empty
sequence without a sign. To allow for representing all patterns of literals,
Whitespace assembly distinguishes leading zeros and allows the empty sequence.

Assembly integer literals can be written in decimal (no prefix), binary (with a
`0b` prefix), octal (`0o`), or hexadecimal (`0x`). In decimal, leading zeros are
forbidden, since 10 is not a power of 2, to avoid ambiguity in the number of
leading zeros to use in binary. In binary, octal, and hexadecimal, a `0` after
the prefix indicates that the rest of the number is encoded in binary, with each
digit padded to a width of 1, 3, or 4 bits, respectively. The empty integer is
represented as the literal `0b`.

| Text   | Whitespace |
| ------ | ---------- |
| 0      | S          |
| -0     | T          |
| 7      | S TTT      |
| -7     | T TTT      |
| 00     | illegal    |
| 007    | illegal    |
| 0b     |            |
| 0b0    | S          |
| 0b00   | S S        |
| 0b000  | S SS       |
| -0b    | illegal    |
| -0b0   | T          |
| -0b00  | T S        |
| -0b000 | T SS       |
| 0b1    | S T        |
| 0b01   | S ST       |
| -0b1   | T T        |
| -0b01  | T ST       |
| 0o     | illegal    |
| 0o0    | S          |
| 0o00   | S SSS      |
| 0o2    | S TS       |
| 0o02   | S STS      |
| 0o002  | S STSSTS   |
| -0o    | illegal    |
| -0o0   | T          |
| -0o00  | T SSS      |
| -0o2   | T TS       |
| -0o02  | T STS      |
| -0o002 | T STSSTS   |
| 0x     | illegal    |
| 0x0    | S          |
| 0x00   | S SSSS     |
| 0x7    | S TTT      |
| 0x07   | S STTT     |
| 0x007  | S SSSSSTTT |
| -0x    | illegal    |
| -0x0   | T          |
| -0x00  | T SSSS     |
| -0x7   | T TTT      |
| -0x07  | T STTT     |
| -0x007 | T SSSSSTTT |

## Tokens

- Word
- Integer
- Character: `' '`
- String: `" "`
- Colon: `:`
- Semicolon: `;`
- Line comment: `#`, `//`, `--`
- Block comment: `/* */`, `{- -}` (nested)
- Line break: LF, CRLF, CR

## Parsing

```rust
enum Token {
    Word,
    Integer,
    Char,
    String,
    Colon,
    Semi,
    Comma,
    Comment,
    LineBreak,
}

enum SemiMode {
    Comment,
    LineBreak,
    Detect,
}

enum OperandMode {
    None,
    /// - `(add|sub|mul|div|mod) (<lhs>? <rhs>)?`
    /// - `store (<addr>? <value>)?`
    /// - `retrieve <value>?`
    Space,
    /// - `(add|sub|mul|div|mod) (<lhs>? "," <rhs>)?`
    /// - `store (<addr>? "," <value>)?`
    /// - `retrieve <value>?`
    Comma,
}

enum LabelOrder {
    /// - `(call|jmp|jz|jn) <label>`
    Post,
    /// - `<label> (call|jmp|jz|jn)`
    Pre,
}
```

```bnf
one_line ::=
    | (inst LineBreak)* LineBreak
inst ::=
    | Mnemonic (Word | Number)*
```

### Heuristics

- Almost every program will have `push`; detect push style
  - Postfix: `push n`
  - Literal: `n`
- If `;` appears at the start of a line, it denotes comments
- If multiple instructions are on a line, then disable `;` separators
- Literal pushes are mutually exclusive with optional arguments or `;`
  separators
- First parse the entire `;`-less program, then use those settings to attempt to
  parse with separators
- Forth-style calls without the `call` mnemonic are not allowed

## Style

- Consistent mnemonic names
- Consistent mnemonic casing
- Analogous mnemonic naming (e.g. not `printc` and `outnum` together)
- Consistent comment styles
