docs/dialects/omniwsa.md, before:

# DRAFT: omniwsa assembly

- Source: <https://github.com/thaliaarchi/omniwsa>
- Corpus: TBD

## Grammar

First, the file is scanned into simple tokens:

```bnf
program ::= token*
token ::=
    | word
    | string
    | colon
    | comma
    | semi
    | slash
    | line_comment
    | block_comment
    | nested_comment
    | space
    | lf
word ::=
    | [A-Za-z0-9_.\-+$!%&<>=?@^`|~]+
string ::=
    | "\"" ([^"\\\n] | "\\" [^\n])* "\""
    | """ ([^'\\\n] | "\\" [^\n])* """
colon ::= ":"
comma ::= ","
semi ::= ";"
hash ::= "#"
slash ::= "/"
line_comment ::=
    | "--" [^\n]*
    | "//" [^\n]*
block_comment ::=
    | "/*" [^*]* "*"+ ([^/*] [^*]* "*"+)* "/"
nested_comment ::= "{-" nested_comment_text* "-"+ "}"
nested_comment_text ::=
    | [^{-]
    | "-"+ [^{}-]
    | "-"* "{"+ [^{-]
    | "-"* "{"* nested_comment
space ::= \p{White_Space} NOT '\n'
lf ::= "\n"
```

Then, words are lexed further:

```bnf
word ::=
    | integer
    | .+
integer ::=
    | [-+]? [0-9] ("_"? [0-9])*
    | [-+]? "0" [bB] ("_"? [01])+
    | [-+]? "0" [oO] ("_"? [0-7])+
    | [-+]? "0" [oX] ("_"? [0-9a-fA-F])+
    | [-+]? ([01] "_"?)+ [bB]
    | [-+]? ([0-7] "_"?)+ [οΟ]
    | [-+]? [0-9] "_"? ([0-9a-fA-F] "_"?)* [hH]
```

- A `;` can be either a line comment or an instruction separator.
- A `#` can either be a line comment or a littleBugHunter hexadecimal literal.
- A `/` can either be an instruction separator or `div`.
- C-style octal is configurable. Otherwise, if any contain '8' or '9', decimal
  will be used, possibly with a warning. TODO: Should the default be octal or
  decimal?

## Semantics

- `store n` can be `push n / swap / store` or `push n / store`.

Commit message:

Draft configurable dynamic lexing and parsing

docs/dialects/omniwsa.md, after:

# DRAFT: omniwsa assembly

- Source: <https://github.com/thaliaarchi/omniwsa>
- Corpus: [rust/thaliaarchi-omniwsa](https://github.com/wspace/corpus/tree/main/rust/thaliaarchi-omniwsa)

A draft for an unimplemented wsa dialect in omniwsa which interoperates with
most features.

## Grammar

First, the file is scanned into simple tokens:

```bnf
program ::= token*
token ::=
    | word
    | string
    | colon
    | comma
    | semi
    | slash
    | line_comment
    | block_comment
    | nested_comment
    | space
    | lf
word ::=
    | [A-Za-z0-9_.\-+$!%&<>=?@^`|~]+
string ::=
    | "\"" ([^"\\\n] | "\\" [^\n])* "\""
    | """ ([^'\\\n] | "\\" [^\n])* """
colon ::= ":"
comma ::= ","
semi ::= ";"
hash ::= "#"
slash ::= "/"
line_comment ::=
    | "--" [^\n]*
    | "//" [^\n]*
block_comment ::=
    | "/*" [^*]* "*"+ ([^/*] [^*]* "*"+)* "/"
nested_comment ::= "{-" nested_comment_text* "-"+ "}"
nested_comment_text ::=
    | [^{-]
    | "-"+ [^{}-]
    | "-"* "{"+ [^{-]
    | "-"* "{"* nested_comment
space ::= \p{White_Space} NOT '\n'
lf ::= "\n"
```

Then, words are lexed further:

```bnf
word ::=
    | integer
    | .+
integer ::=
    | [-+]? [0-9] ("_"? [0-9])*
    | [-+]? "0" [bB] ("_"? [01])+
    | [-+]? "0" [oO] ("_"? [0-7])+
    | [-+]? "0" [oX] ("_"? [0-9a-fA-F])+
    | [-+]? ([01] "_"?)+ [bB]
    | [-+]? ([0-7] "_"?)+ [οΟ]
    | [-+]? [0-9] "_"? ([0-9a-fA-F] "_"?)* [hH]
```

- A `;` can be either a line comment or an instruction separator.
- A `#` can either be a line comment or a littleBugHunter hexadecimal literal.
- A `/` can either be an instruction separator or `div`.
- C-style octal is configurable. Otherwise, if any contain '8' or '9', decimal
  will be used, possibly with a warning. TODO: Should the default be octal or
  decimal?

## Semantics

- `store n` can be `push n / swap / store` or `push n / store`.
