docs/dialects/voliva.md, before:

# voliva Whitespace assembly

- Source: [code](https://github.com/voliva/wsa)
  (last updated [2024-07-25](https://github.com/voliva/wsa/commit/3a99669b57f266e7328143e49579f6d33da7c6f5))
- Corpus: [typescript/voliva-wsa](https://github.com/wspace/corpus/blob/main/typescript/voliva-wsa/project.json)

## Grammar

```bnf
program ::= (line "\n")* line?
line ::=
    | WHITESPACE instruction WHITESPACE
    | WHITESPACE comment
comment ::= ";" .*

# BUG: Arities are not enforced.
# BUG: Mnemonics are compared with locale-aware Unicode case folding.
instruction ::=
    | (?i)"push" required_int
    | (?i)"dup" ignored
    | (?i)"copy" required_int
    | (?i)"swap" ignored
    | (?i)"pop" ignored
    | (?i)"slide" required_int
    # When non-empty, that number is pushed before the operation. As an
    # optimization, add 0, sub 0, mul 1, and div 1 are substituted with nothing
    # (where 0 and 1 are the parsed values).
    | (?i)"add" optional_int
    | (?i)"sub" optional_int
    | (?i)"mul" optional_int
    | (?i)"div" optional_int
    | (?i)"mod" optional_int
    | (?i)"and" ignored
    | (?i)"or" ignored
    | (?i)"not" ignored
    | (?i)"store" optional_int
    | (?i)"storestr" required_string
    | (?i)"retrieve" optional_int
    | (?i)"label" required_label
    | (?i)"call" required_label
    | (?i)"jump" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpz" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpn" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpp" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpnz" required_label
    | (?i)"jumppz" required_label
    | ((?i)"jumppn" | (?i)"jumpnp") required_label
    | (?i)"ret" ignored
    | (?i)"exit" ignored
    | (?i)"outn" ignored
    | (?i)"outc" ignored
    | (?i)"readn" ignored
    | (?i)"readc" ignored
    | (?i)"valuestring" SPACE ident (SPACE arg)?
    | (?i)"valueinteger" SPACE ident (SPACE bigint)?
    | (?i)"debugger" ignored
    | (?i)"include" (SPACE arg)?

# BUG: A value can be omitted and it is 0 when empty.
required_int ::= (SPACE int)?
# When empty (not including the SPACE), no argument is present.
optional_int ::= (SPACE int)?
# Labels are unrestricted.
required_label ::= (SPACE arg)?
required_string ::= (SPACE string)?

int ::=
    | bigint
    | char
    | ident
string ::=
    | arg
    | ident
    # BUG: A char should not be valid here; it is converted to a BigInt, then to
    # a string, then to codepoints.
    | char
char ::= "'" . "'"
ident ::= "_" NON_SPACE*
arg ::= .*
ignored ::= (SPACE arg)?

# BigInt constructor (ref. https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/abstract-operations.html#sec-stringtobigint).
bigint ::=
    | WHITESPACE? bigint_integer WHITESPACE?
    | WHITESPACE? # Empty is 0
# Note: A 0-prefixed number is decimal not octal, and _ digit separators and
# non-decimal signs are not supported.
bigint_integer ::=
    | ("-" | "+") [0-9]+
    | ("0b" | "0B") [01]+
    | ("0o" | "0O") [0-7]+
    | ("0x" | "0X") [0-9 a-f A-F]+

# Whitespace and line terminators in BigInt constructor (ref. https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/abstract-operations.html#prod-StrWhiteSpaceChar)
# and in String.prototype.trim (ref. https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/text-processing.html#sec-string.prototype.trim).
WHITESPACE ::=
    | <TAB> | <VT> | <FF> | <ZWNBSP> | <USP>
    | <LF> | <CR> | <LS> | <PS>

SPACE ::= " "
NON_SPACE ::= [^ ]
```

## Generation

- `add 0` => nothing
- `sub 0` => nothing
- `mul 1` => nothing
- `div 1` => nothing
- `add n` => `push n / add`
- `sub n` => `push n / sub`
- `mul n` => `push n / mul`
- `div n` => `push n / div`
- `mod n` => `push n / mod`
- `storestr s` => `dup / push c / store / push 1 / add` for each character in
  `s` and 0
- `jumpp l` => `push 0 / swap / sub / jn l`
- `jumpnz l` => `push 1 / sub / jn l`
- `jumppz l` => `jn __internal_label_{id} / jmp l / __internal_label_{id}:`
- `jumppn l` => `jz __internal_label_{id} / jmp l / __internal_label_{id}:`

Where `{id}` is substituted for an integer, globally counting from 0 for every
internal label constructed, in lexical order. However, these are never
displayed.

Labels are assigned integers by first use (definitions and references), starting
at 0. Labels are not encoded with a leading S (positive) sign.

Unlike the Burghard dialect, `valueinteger` and `valuestring` use the same
symbol table.

## Bugs in the assembler

- Arities are not enforced. Required arguments can be omitted and become 0, and
  instructions that don't take an argument do not check for an extra argument.
- Mnemonics are compared using String.prototype.toLocaleLowerCase, which has
  locale-aware case folding. Thus, in Turkish (tr) and Azeri (az) locales, İ
  (U+0130, LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH DOT ABOVE) compares equal to i (U+0069,
  LATIN SMALL LETTER I). In all locales, K (U+212A, KELVIN SIGN) compares equal
  to k (U+006B, LATIN SMALL LETTER K), but no mnemonics use k. The characters
  used are `[a-eg-jl-pr-z]`.
- `storestr` with a character literal is invalid. It is converted to a BigInt,
  then to a string, then to codepoints.
- Labels with the pattern `__internal_label_{i}` can collide with generated
  labels.

Commit message:

Note codegen for voliva extensions and internal labels

docs/dialects/voliva.md, after:

# voliva Whitespace assembly

- Source: [code](https://github.com/voliva/wsa)
  (last updated [2024-07-25](https://github.com/voliva/wsa/commit/3a99669b57f266e7328143e49579f6d33da7c6f5))
- Corpus: [typescript/voliva-wsa](https://github.com/wspace/corpus/blob/main/typescript/voliva-wsa/project.json)

## Grammar

```bnf
program ::= (line "\n")* line?
line ::=
    | WHITESPACE instruction WHITESPACE
    | WHITESPACE comment
comment ::= ";" .*

# BUG: Arities are not enforced.
# BUG: Mnemonics are compared with locale-aware Unicode case folding.
instruction ::=
    | (?i)"push" required_int
    | (?i)"dup" ignored
    | (?i)"copy" required_int
    | (?i)"swap" ignored
    | (?i)"pop" ignored
    | (?i)"slide" required_int
    # When non-empty, that number is pushed before the operation. As an
    # optimization, add 0, sub 0, mul 1, and div 1 are substituted with nothing
    # (where 0 and 1 are the parsed values).
    | (?i)"add" optional_int
    | (?i)"sub" optional_int
    | (?i)"mul" optional_int
    | (?i)"div" optional_int
    | (?i)"mod" optional_int
    | (?i)"and" ignored
    | (?i)"or" ignored
    | (?i)"not" ignored
    | (?i)"store" optional_int
    | (?i)"storestr" required_string
    | (?i)"retrieve" optional_int
    | (?i)"label" required_label
    | (?i)"call" required_label
    | (?i)"jump" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpz" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpn" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpp" required_label
    | (?i)"jumpnz" required_label
    | (?i)"jumppz" required_label
    | ((?i)"jumppn" | (?i)"jumpnp") required_label
    | (?i)"ret" ignored
    | (?i)"exit" ignored
    | (?i)"outn" ignored
    | (?i)"outc" ignored
    | (?i)"readn" ignored
    | (?i)"readc" ignored
    | (?i)"valuestring" SPACE ident (SPACE arg)?
    | (?i)"valueinteger" SPACE ident (SPACE bigint)?
    | (?i)"debugger" ignored
    | (?i)"include" (SPACE arg)?

# BUG: A value can be omitted and it is 0 when empty.
required_int ::= (SPACE int)?
# When empty (not including the SPACE), no argument is present.
optional_int ::= (SPACE int)?
# Labels are unrestricted.
required_label ::= (SPACE arg)?
required_string ::= (SPACE string)?

int ::=
    | bigint
    | char
    | ident
string ::=
    | arg
    | ident
    # BUG: A char should not be valid here; it is converted to a BigInt, then to
    # a string, then to codepoints.
    | char
char ::= "'" . "'"
ident ::= "_" NON_SPACE*
arg ::= .*
ignored ::= (SPACE arg)?

# BigInt constructor (ref. https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/abstract-operations.html#sec-stringtobigint).
bigint ::=
    | WHITESPACE? bigint_integer WHITESPACE?
    | WHITESPACE? # Empty is 0
# Note: A 0-prefixed number is decimal not octal, and _ digit separators and
# non-decimal signs are not supported.
bigint_integer ::=
    | ("-" | "+") [0-9]+
    | ("0b" | "0B") [01]+
    | ("0o" | "0O") [0-7]+
    | ("0x" | "0X") [0-9 a-f A-F]+

# Whitespace and line terminators in BigInt constructor (ref. https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/abstract-operations.html#prod-StrWhiteSpaceChar)
# and in String.prototype.trim (ref. https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/text-processing.html#sec-string.prototype.trim).
WHITESPACE ::=
    | <TAB> | <VT> | <FF> | <ZWNBSP> | <USP>
    | <LF> | <CR> | <LS> | <PS>

SPACE ::= " "
NON_SPACE ::= [^ ]
```

## Generation

- `add 0` => nothing
- `sub 0` => nothing
- `mul 1` => nothing
- `div 1` => nothing
- `add n` => `push n / add`
- `sub n` => `push n / sub`
- `mul n` => `push n / mul`
- `div n` => `push n / div`
- `mod n` => `push n / mod`
- `storestr s` => `dup / push c / store / push 1 / add` for each character in
  `s` and 0
- `jumpp l` => `push 0 / swap / sub / jn l`
- `jumpnz l` => `push 1 / sub / jn l`
- `jumppz l` => `jn __internal_label_{id} / jmp l / __internal_label_{id}:`
- `jumppn l` => `jz __internal_label_{id} / jmp l / __internal_label_{id}:`
- `or` => Whitespace TSLS
- `not` => Whitespace TSLT
- `and` => Whitespace TSLL
- `debugger` => Whitespace LLS

Where `{id}` is substituted for an integer, globally counting from 0 for every
internal label constructed, in lexical order. These internal labels are
displayed in the debugger instruction listing, along with any other assembled
labels.

Labels are assigned integers by first use (definitions and references), starting
at 0. Labels are not encoded with a leading S (positive) sign.

Unlike the Burghard dialect, `valueinteger` and `valuestring` use the same
symbol table.

## Bugs in the assembler

- Arities are not enforced. Required arguments can be omitted and become 0, and
  instructions that don't take an argument do not check for an extra argument.
- Mnemonics are compared using String.prototype.toLocaleLowerCase, which has
  locale-aware case folding. Thus, in Turkish (tr) and Azeri (az) locales, İ
  (U+0130, LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH DOT ABOVE) compares equal to i (U+0069,
  LATIN SMALL LETTER I). In all locales, K (U+212A, KELVIN SIGN) compares equal
  to k (U+006B, LATIN SMALL LETTER K), but no mnemonics use k. The characters
  used are `[a-eg-jl-pr-z]`.
- `storestr` with a character literal is invalid. It is converted to a BigInt,
  then to a string, then to codepoints.
- Labels with the pattern `__internal_label_{i}` can collide with generated
  labels.
